Let's start from the beginning.
Making a good impression when
you start your new role.
So a very common fear for
engineers when starting a new job is
wanting to demonstrate their value as
quickly as possible because they
don't wanna get fired, right?
And for engineers, that's usually
ramping up in the code base quickly,
starting to work on technical tasks.
And writing code well, so let's talk
about how to do all of those well,
starting with ramping up in a new role.
Ask questions, I know this seems a little
obvious, but I've noticed that engineers,
are sometimes afraid to ask
questions in the beginning.
Because they don't wanna look like
they don't know what's going on or
what they're doing.
I argue the opposite in that,
the first few months is the best time,
because people are expecting you
to ask a ton of questions, and
they're gonna give you a lot of leeway.
The opposite is that if
you don't ask questions,
you still don't know what's going on
a few months later, when you start
asking those types of questions,
then it starts to look not great.
The other really big tip that I have
is to request pair programming or
shadowing another engineer that has
at least been there for maybe a year.
To pick up all of
the unwritten cultural and
coding norms that's for that company.
This is usually something that
managers don't offer you, but
if you request it,
it's not a problem at all.
And what it would look like is that
you're going to ask to follow along
with that other engineer as they work
on their task for maybe a day or
two, or even up to a week.
And then you're gonna observe what
they're doing and ask a ton of questions,
including, what are the good and
bad parts in the code base?
This seems like such a silly question,
but when you're entering code bases,
most of the time they're layers and
layers of code throughout time
with many different patterns.
And so if you were trying to figure it
out by yourself by reading the code,
you're probably gonna get very,
very confused.
And you're gonna waste time trying to
figure out what is the most current
set of code patterns.
You'll also want to watch how they handle
testing, so are they writing unit tests?
Are they doing manual QA?
What exactly are they doing
to ensure maintainability?
What's the PR process like?
So after you create a pull request,
how many reviewers are they adding?
What kind of feedback are they
expecting to receive?
And then how long
generally are they waiting?
And is it okay for them to just
merge without an official approval?
Other things are what's
the pipeline to deployment?
So once your code is ready to merge,
how many stages is it going
through before it's actually
live in front of I assume users.
Does the engineer have to do
anything to shepherd it forward?
Which documentation sources are reliable?
A lot of documentation out
there in the companies,
they're not usually kept up to date.
And so it's easy for you to go down the
wrong rabbit hole trying to figure out if
what you're reading is accurate or not.
Having someone point that out to you
will help you move a lot faster.
Ideally, they're also going to start
introducing you to who your partner
teams are, who your customer teams are.
What do each of them do, who are the
different points of contact in each of
those teams, and when to go to them.
And hopefully,
if you have developed enough of a rapport
with this engineer, they're also
gonna share some company specific
gotchas that you should know about.
So all of this,
if you do it through this shadowing or
peer programming experience, you can ramp
up much more quickly as an engineer.
Because all of these pieces
are actually really important for
you to start delivering your work.